- hole analogy for describing context, or maybe thompsons milk drops....

- stucuturing protocols - balance between free form and metatdata, - 5 star linked open data...

- a proposal to capture contexts, make them conrete and usable...

- add this to a protocol authoring system.

- solves the winchester house / death by previously described problem... - context and details are lost as we continually build and adapt...

- experimental design is design - science of the artificial
- we need blueprints that show the complex relationships between form, function, strucuture, process and goal...



Communicating and managing the ‘messy knowledge’ of biology wet lab
experiments.

Organising our knowledge of laboratory
experiments in ways that can be interpreted and shared by both human and
machine is desirable for leveraging computational tools to assist the
discovery, reuse, integration, and reasoning over our scientific
knowledge. Ontology
or workflow based tools are often employed to achieve such goals. The
successful adaption, reuse, or replication of a laboratory experiment
however,
requires the description and communication of more than mere ‘entities’
and ‘processes’
described by our current tools - it relies heavily on individual background
knowledge, situated understanding, and a design rationale that is often
specific to local contexts or laboratories. Communicating this ‘messy
knowledge’
in a structured way remains challenging, and we lack good tools to
describe and
encode these more pragmatic concepts. To facilitate the sharing and
integration
of laboratory knowledge in the real world, i.e., "at the bench", we
identify design patterns which offer an approach and vocabulary that can
extend
our laboratory descriptions with additional elements such as intent,
purpose,
and situational constraints. We report here on progress towards the
utilisation
of design patterns to capture and communicate such ‘messy knowledge’, and
we
demonstrate an approach for transforming traditional design patterns into
a more
formal and structured form that can integrate with ontologies or other
computationally based representations.cp